[Alumni News] Ms. Jungsoo Kim (STP/QRM ‘17) Wins 2nd Prize at 2025 POSTECH SF Award

Ms. Jungsoo Kim (STP/QRM ’17) won 2nd prize at 2025 POSTECH SF Award. The award is a science fiction writing competition exclusively for undergraduate and graduate students in science and engineering. Ms. Jungsoo Kim’s award-winning piece “Testament of a Probabilistic Ghost (확률적 유령의 유언)” is published in the anthology “Diagonal Argument (대각선 논법),” an official collection of the award-winning works of the 2025 POSTECH SF Award. We met at a cafe to discuss the piece and her experience at UIC over tea.

Q: Could you briefly introduce yourself and share what you are currently working on?
A: My name is Jungsoo Kim. I graduated from UIC, double majoring in Science, Technology and Policy (STP) and Quantitative Risk Management (QRM). I went on to pursue graduate studies at Seoul National University, where I am now a second-year PhD student in the Graduate School of Data Science. Lately I have been working on three academic papers and a drama script competition. I just recently submitted a paper to a journal about explainable AI - trying to explain what variables AI was considering when it made a particular decision. I will have to write a rebuttal soon, but right now I have some free time. After this interview I am going to meet up with a friend to work on the drama script.

Q: Congratulations on your POSTECH award! What does this award mean to you?
A: Thank you! This is my second award in 8 years, after winning the Yonsei Cultural Award in the playwriting category at the end of 2017. So when I got the award, I was like - “Oh wow, this actually works!” I was very moved, because my dream of being published came true through this achievement.

Q: Could you tell us more about the award-winning piece?
A: My work, “Testament of a Probabilistic Ghost (확률적 유령의 유언)” is set in the not-too-distant future where people use evidence produced by generative AI in court. The story follows three children who come together after their father’s passing to hear the testament from the AI modeled after him, which then turns into a mystery about his death. It’s a very fun makjang - Korean style over-the-top drama - with a spoonful of sci-fi. You can find the anthology “Diagonal Argument (대각선 논법),” which includes my work, through major booksellers, so please check it out if you can!

Q: This achievement bridges your technical work in data science and creative writing, two very different areas. Do you find that doing both helps, and how do you balance both research and writing?
A: For me, the two are different. Though there is writing involved in both academic papers and creative work, they have a different purpose. When writing an academic paper, you must convince by proving, whereas in creative writing, you simply have to make it convincing to the audience. I use a different part of my brain for each task, so it’s pretty hard to balance out my energy. I don’t write every day. I write when I have time, like right now. I think it’s important to keep your main work, whatever that may be, as the priority. But I get story materials in daily life, and I do get ideas from the conversations I have with my fellow researchers. For instance, I got the idea for my award-winning piece from a conversation I had with an LLM researcher, who said at this rate we are going to have AI produced materials used in court. So that got me thinking then writing.

Q: Stepping back, we would love to hear about your time at UIC. Which classes, professors or projects had the most impact on you?
A: I think 60% of my worldview came from the Common Curriculum (CC) classes I took as a freshman. One memorable class is Professor Astrid Lac’s World Literature, where I encountered Camus and his philosophy of absurdism. An idea from that class that I still remember to this day is about how true independence begins when two people relate to each other not by their roles but as individuals. I think many family issues come from parents and children not seeing each other as individuals, and it’s a theme that I continue to work with in my writing, and a theme in my prize-winning work as well. By the way, I got a B+ in that class, which goes on to show that it’s not the grades that matter the most.

Although the CC courses are intense, especially for STEM students, it is extremely valuable because opportunities for deep discussion and writing become rare once you declare your major. In an AI-driven era, the ability to ask questions is even more important than ever before, which is why I believe CC classes are incredibly important. 

Q: Could you also tell us why you decided to major in Science, Technology, and Policy (STP), and tips for students interested in the major?
A: I applied to UIC because I wanted to major in STP. I was always interested in the tension between scientific progress and regulation. I think it’s an area that becomes even more relevant in the AI-age today. One major benefit of STP is that you get to have really small classes. It’s a rare chance to get insights right next to your professors and get really tight knit groups of students.

Some advice I would like to give students who are serious about STP is that you might want to do introductory STP courses first, then quantitative classes, and advanced STP courses last. This will give you a basic understanding of what policy is like, what are the quantitative ways to evaluate it, then apply them. STP graduates have various paths - some go on to graduate school in data science or statistics like me, or work in IT or biology conglomerates.

Q: Were there moments you felt uncertain about your future after university, and how did you navigate those decisions?
A: Definitely. Because I was uncertain, I tried out different paths, such as interning at a startup and participating in competitions. In the process, I got interested in graduate school, but I wasn’t sure if this was right for me. The moment it eventually clicked for me was when I took Mathematical Statistics. It was so hard, but it was so fun. I didn’t mind skipping meals and staying up all night working on the problem sets. I actually ended up switching to graduate school in my senior year, first semester.

Q: Lastly, for students who are considering a future in data science, creative writing, or other multiple interests, what advice would you give based on your own journey?
A: You are a generalist! As a generalist to a generalist, it’s really important that you don’t get burnt out. After you graduate, you are going to see other people getting married, getting promoted in jobs. Remember that you are going to be slower than your peers when you are pursuing multiple interests. For me, I wanted to be both a writer and pursue a PhD. To achieve both takes a lot of time and a lot of energy, so of course my path is going to have to be different - but it’s also a path that I am choosing to enjoy.

Also try to see what kind of traits and environments are fit for you as a generalist. I chose data science over statistics because it felt like a field where I could engage with different areas, and my lab has been great because I met a lot of like-minded fellow researchers. There is a place for you out there.

